---
lang: en
---

Shared: How to Migrate Existing Microservices to Serverless \| Lars
Cromley

::: {.section .section}
::: container
::: nav-left
[](https://cromleylabs.com){.nav-item}

# Lars Cromley {#lars-cromley .title .is-4}
:::

::: nav-right
[[]{.icon}](/about){.level-item}[[]{.icon}](/disclaimer){.level-item}[[]{.icon}](https://github.com/callmeradical){.level-item}[[]{.icon}](https://twitter.com/callmeradical){.level-item}[[]{.icon}](/index.xml){.level-item}
:::
:::
:::

::: {.section .section}
::: container
## June 15, 2018 {#june-15-2018 .subtitle .is-6}

# Shared: How to Migrate Existing Microservices to Serverless {#shared-how-to-migrate-existing-microservices-to-serverless .title}

::: content
> When you have a set of microservices running on VMs or inside Docker
> containers, consider moving some of them to serverless. Here are some
> commonly cited reasons:
>
> Cost: Services with low traffic, or cron jobs, are cheaper with
> serverless. This is because you don't pay for them when they're idle.
>
> Time to market: You get more done, faster. Free yourself of the
> undifferentiated heavy lifting of managing infrastructure. Focus on
> your users' needs instead.
>
> Scalability: You can scale faster and more aggressively because you're
> not constrained by the amount of spare capacity you reserve (and have
> to pay for) for scaling.
>
> Easier ops: You get logging and monitoring out of the box. You can
> also integrate with other services for tracing, alerting, and
> visualization.
>
> Security: You have more fine-grained control of access. Give each
> function only the permissions it needs to minimize attack surface.
>
> Resilience: You get multi-AZ out of the box with AWS Lambda.
>
> Suffice to say that there are many benefits to moving some of your
> microservices to serverless. But, there are also challenges you need
> to overcome as you make the transition. You will find that many of the
> practices and tools you rely on are no longer suitable. And you need
> to rethink how you approach building production-ready microservices
> with serverless.

[Keep Reading @ blog.binaris.com - Yan
Cui](https://blog.binaris.com/your-guide-to-migrating-existing-microservices-to-serverless/)
:::
:::
:::

::: {.section .section}
::: container
::: {#disqus_thread}
:::

Please enable JavaScript to view the [comments powered by
Disqus.](https://disqus.com/?ref_noscript){rel="nofollow"}
:::
:::

::: {.section .section}
::: {.container .has-text-centered}
© [Lars Cromley](https://github.com/callmeradical) 2017
:::
:::
