---
lang: en
---

Everything is Software \| Lars Cromley

::: {.section .section}
::: container
::: nav-left
[](https://cromleylabs.com){.nav-item}

# Lars Cromley {#lars-cromley .title .is-4}
:::

::: nav-right
[[]{.icon}](/about){.level-item}[[]{.icon}](/disclaimer){.level-item}[[]{.icon}](https://github.com/callmeradical){.level-item}[[]{.icon}](https://twitter.com/callmeradical){.level-item}[[]{.icon}](/index.xml){.level-item}
:::
:::
:::

::: {.section .section}
::: container
## June 8, 2018 {#june-8-2018 .subtitle .is-6}

# Everything is Software {#everything-is-software .title}

::: content
Perhaps it's just nostalgia but I love listening to talks from old
conferences and meetups I have been to. When attending you have one
frame on mind and depending on the environment or situation you were in
when attending, you receive the information one way but as time goes on
you arrive at a different place. How do those conclusions change when
you revisit them?

In 2015, I had been working on a large scale modernization project for a
customer. The engagement was largely focused on an implementation of
Chef. We were automating all the things. We were practicing good
software practices. We had unit tests with 100% coverage on all of our
recipes. Integration suites to run for each flavor of OS we were
supporting. We were regularly deploying to production multiple times a
day. It felt good.

Werner Vogels took the stage of the AWS Summit in New York in 2015
quoting a paper Nick Carr wrote in May 2003 titled "IT Doesn't Matter."

In his paper Carr outlines how information technology follows a pattern
incredibly similar to that of earlier technologies such as railroads and
electricity.

For a brief period, as they are being built into the infrastructure of
commerce, these "infrastructural technologies", as I call them, open
opportunities for forward-looking companies to gain strong competitive
advantages. But as their availability increases and their cost
decreases - as they become ubiquitous - they become commodity inputs.
They may be more essential than ever to society, but from a strategic
business standpoint, they become invisible; they no longer matter.

In Werner's talk he draws the conclusion that "Only if you are able to
focus on really building the products you want to build can you actually
compete in today's marketplace."

I had to reflect a little bit about what we were doing. Was it really
important? How did it benefit the customer? I was delivering value
afterall. Our code shepered software from environment to environment on
it's way to production. If we didn't write our code, the new features
would never ship.

In 2016, I found myself sitting in a very similar seat when Werner took
the stage in New York, this time he was on a roll talking about Lean
manufacturing principals and eliminating waste. He stated that "Waste is
anything that doesn't benefit the customer." then once again calling
back to Nick Carr's paper, this time he drew a similar conclusion, but
phrased it in a way that I feel was more meaningful.

There is a certain amount of IT that everyone else has to do and as such
it is not a competitive differentiator and if it doesn't differentiate
you, it doesn't matter to your customers.

This tells me a few things. First, I should probably read that paper he
keeps referencing (I have since read said paper). Second, that there is
going to be a certain amount of waste that is necessary for business to
function. Lastly, the waste you want to eliminate is in value streams
that eventually end in customer benefit, that is agility.

Now, let's finally talk a little bit about serverless. Serverless covers
two separate areas, with the older of the two being Backend as a Service
(BaaS). This is used to describe applications that use third-party or
SaaS solutions to manage server-side logic: cloud-accessible databases,
authentication services, etc. The newer, and often more recognized
meaning is Functions as a Service (FaaS). This puts the control of
server-side logic back in the hands of the developer without the need to
manage infrastructure. All the hype is currently around Functions as a
Service. Every cloud provider has their own flavor of this and all of
them have a portfolio of serverless offerings. Amazon Web Services with
things like AWS Lambda and Amazon DynamoDB, while Google has Firebase
and Google Functions, and Azure has CosmosDB and Azure Functions. It
seems like serverless is taking off everywhere.

I think this is the beginning of the realization that Werner was talking
about. When you abstract the underlying infrastructure, you remove a
significant portion of concerns that can be seen as waste. Operational
metrics in regards to infrastructure do not matter to the customer, it
is IT that everyone has to do. By eliminating this function or concern
in IT you have given your developers and engineers the ability to focus
on the things that matter most. Your customers.
:::
:::
:::

::: {.section .section}
::: container
::: {#disqus_thread}
:::

Please enable JavaScript to view the [comments powered by
Disqus.](https://disqus.com/?ref_noscript){rel="nofollow"}
:::
:::

::: {.section .section}
::: {.container .has-text-centered}
© [Lars Cromley](https://github.com/callmeradical) 2017
:::
:::
