---
lang: en
---

Export and Import SSL Certs from IIS to nginx \| Lars Cromley

::: {.section .section}
::: container
::: nav-left
[](https://cromleylabs.com){.nav-item}

# Lars Cromley {#lars-cromley .title .is-4}
:::

::: nav-right
[[]{.icon}](/about){.level-item}[[]{.icon}](/disclaimer){.level-item}[[]{.icon}](https://github.com/callmeradical){.level-item}[[]{.icon}](https://twitter.com/callmeradical){.level-item}[[]{.icon}](/index.xml){.level-item}
:::
:::
:::

::: {.section .section}
::: container
## November 25, 2013 {#november-25-2013 .subtitle .is-6}

# Export and Import SSL Certs from IIS to nginx {#export-and-import-ssl-certs-from-iis-to-nginx .title}

::: content
While transitioning a website built in .NET there came a time to move
the server to something a little more robust... like Linux! The
following steps are more for my benefit but they may help in a pinch.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

To export the SSL certificate from your Windows Server:

1.  Run "mmc.exe" from Start-\>Run menu;
2.  Open "File"-\>"Add/Remove Snap-in";
3.  Click on "Add..." button, select "Certificates" option, click "Add",
    select "Computer account"; Next; Finish;
4.  Close "Add standalone snap-in"; close "Add/Remove snap-in" by "Ok"
    button;
5.  Open "Personal" folder and find corresponding certificate;
6.  Right click on "Certificates", select "All tasks"-\>"Export";
7.  On "Certificate export wizard" click Next, select "Yes, export the
    private key", select "Personal Information Exchange" format, click
    Next, enter password, select file, click Finish.

Copy the Certificate files to your server to the directory on your
server where you will keep your certificate and key files. Make them
readable by root only to increase security.

Concatenate the primary certificate and intermediate certificate.

You need to concatenate the primary certificate file
(your_domain_name.crt) and the intermediate certificate file
(DigiCertCA.crt) into a single pem file by running the following
command:

``` bash
cat DigiCertCA.crt >> your_domain_name.crt
```

Edit the Nginx virtual hosts file:

Now open your Nginx virtual host file for the website you are securing.
If you need your site to be accessible through both secure (https) and
non-secure (http) connections, you will need a server module for each
type of connection. Make a copy of the existing non-secure server module
and paste it below the original. Then add the lines in bold below:

    server {

    listen 443;

    ssl on;
    ssl_certificate /etc/ssl/your_domain_name.crt; (or .pem)
    ssl_certificate_key /etc/ssl/your_domain_name.key;

    server_name your.domain.com;
    access_log /var/log/nginx/nginx.vhost.access.log;
    error_log /var/log/nginx/nginx.vhost.error.log;
    location / {
    root /home/www/public_html/your.domain.com/public/;
    index index.html;
        }
    }

Adjust the file names to match your certificate files:

ssl_certificate should be your primary certificate combined with the
intermediate certificate that you made in the previous step (e.g.
your_domain_name.crt). ssl_certificate_key should be the key file
generated when you created the CSR. Restart Nginx.

``` bash
sudo /etc/init.d/nginx restart
```
:::
:::
:::

::: {.section .section}
::: container
::: {#disqus_thread}
:::

Please enable JavaScript to view the [comments powered by
Disqus.](https://disqus.com/?ref_noscript){rel="nofollow"}
:::
:::

::: {.section .section}
::: {.container .has-text-centered}
© [Lars Cromley](https://github.com/callmeradical) 2017
:::
:::
