---
lang: en
---

Raft for Dummies and those like me. \| Lars Cromley

::: {.section .section}
::: container
::: nav-left
[](https://cromleylabs.com){.nav-item}

# Lars Cromley {#lars-cromley .title .is-4}
:::

::: nav-right
[[]{.icon}](/about){.level-item}[[]{.icon}](/disclaimer){.level-item}[[]{.icon}](https://github.com/callmeradical){.level-item}[[]{.icon}](https://twitter.com/callmeradical){.level-item}[[]{.icon}](/index.xml){.level-item}
:::
:::
:::

::: {.section .section}
::: container
## September 11, 2016 {#september-11-2016 .subtitle .is-6}

# Raft for Dummies and those like me. {#raft-for-dummies-and-those-like-me. .title}

::: content
This is going to be my very feeble attempt to explain the Raft consensus
algorithm. The very least I will accomplish is sharing the material I
have read about Raft and how I have come to understand it. Raft is used
in popular pieces of software such as RethinkDB, etcd, and a number of
Hashicorp products.(^[1](#fn:1)^)

### What is Raft?

Raft was developed in the hopes of creating an easy to understand
consensus algorithm. As far as that goes, I think they succeeded,
especially when compared with similiar algorithms, such as
[Paxos](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paxos_(computer_science))(I am
still working this one out). Consensus algorithms allow a collection of
machines to work as a coherent group that can survive the failures of
some of its members.(^[2](#fn:2)^)

To really understand this, lets take a step back and talk about what
makes up a distributed system. Wikipedia has a really great definition
on the [Distributed Computing
page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Distributed_computing):

> A distributed system is a model in which components located
> on networked computers communicate and coordinate their actions
> by passing messages.

The consensus algorithm is how these computers coordinate their actions.
Implementing a consensus algorithm is typically necessary in the context
of *replicated state machines*.

A common implementation of a replicated state machine, uses a replicated
log. In otherwords, the following is true:

-   Multiple logs containing a series of commands or transactions.
-   Each log must contain the same instructions in the same order.
-   Each machine processes the same sequence of commands.

A commonplace example of this, at least in most enterprise shops, is
Zookeeper. Zookeeper is an example of a replicated state
machine.![cloudcraft - RSM
(1)](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/s/eahsi12m5jov22u/statemachine.png)

This is the basic design of state machine architecture. Client sends a
message to the consensus module, the consensus module replicates the
transaction to multiple logs, the state machine reads from the logs and
returns the value or transaction back to the client.

The log is very important. The consensus algorithm is the manner in
which we keep the replicated log consistent. The consensus module on a
node receives instructions from clients, adds them to its log, and it
communicates to other servers to ensure that every log eventually
contains all requests in the in which they were received, even if some
servers fail. After the commands are properly replicated, each server's
state machine processes them in log order, and output is returned to the
client nodes. The outcome, is a system that appears to be a single,
highly reliable, state machine. This is true with the exception of
Byzantine conditions(^[3](#fn:3)^) (network delays, partitions, packet
loss, duplication, and reordering).

In Raft a node can be in 1 of 3 states:

-   The Follower state
-   The Candidate state
-   The Leader state

All nodes start in the follower state. If Followers don't hear from a
leader then they can become a candidate. The candidate then requests
votes from other nodes. Nodes reply with their vote. The candidate
becomes the leader if it gets votes from a majority of nodes. This is
the process called *Leader Election*. All changes now flow through the
leader. Each change is added as an entry in the node's log. The log
entry is uncommitted and as such will not update the node's value,
instead, the node first replicates it to the follower nodes, then the
leader waits until a majority of nodes have written the entry, and is
then committed to the leader node. The leader then notifies the
followers that the entry is committed. The cluster has then come to a
consensus. This is log replication.

Leader Election

In Raft there are two timeout settings which control elections,
*Election Timeout*, and *Heartbeat Timeout*.

Election timeout is the amount of time a follower waits until becoming a
candidate. Election timeout is randomized to be between 150 ms and 300
ms. After the election timeout the follower becomes a candidate and
starts a new election term, votes for itself, and sends out Request Vote
messages to other nodes. If the receiving node hasn't voted yet in this
term then it votes for the candidate, and the node resets its election
timeout. Once a candidate has a majority of votes it becomes leader.

The leader begins sending out Append Entries messages to its followers.
These messages are sent in intervals specified by the heartbeat timeout.
Followers then respond to each Append Entries message. This election
term will continue until a follower stops receiving heartbeats and
becomes a candidate. Requiring a majority of votes guarantees that only
one leader can be elected per term. If two nodes become candidates at
the same time then a split vote can occur. In the event of a split vote,
say we had four nodes, two nodes both start an election for the same
term, and each reaches a single follower node before the other. Now each
candidate has 2 votes and can receive no more for this term. The nodes
will wait for a new election and try again. This will continue until
majority is reached.(^[4](#fn:4)^)

Raft was created to be easier to understand than Paxos. There is a
conference specifically for systems design called the NSDI (Networked
Systems Design and Implementation) and someone there even voiced concern
about people understanding all components of Paxos. Claiming that there
only 5 people are the conference that understood it completely. Whether
or not that is true. I can say for sure, Raft is definitely easier to
understand and has succeeded in that mission.

### References

::: footnotes

------------------------------------------------------------------------

1.  [[Raft Implementations](https://raft.github.io/#implementations) \|
    [^\[return\]^](#fnref:1){.footnote-return}]{#fn:1}
2.  [[In Search of an Understandable Consesus
    Algorithm](https://raft.github.io/raft.pdf) \|
    [^\[return\]^](#fnref:2){.footnote-return}]{#fn:2}
3.  [[Byzantine fault
    tolerance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Byzantine_fault_tolerance)
    \| [^\[return\]^](#fnref:3){.footnote-return}]{#fn:3}
4.  [[The Secret Lift of Data -
    Raft](http://thesecretlivesofdata.com/raft/#home) \|
    [^\[return\]^](#fnref:4){.footnote-return}]{#fn:4}
:::
:::
:::
:::

::: {.section .section}
::: container
::: {#disqus_thread}
:::

Please enable JavaScript to view the [comments powered by
Disqus.](https://disqus.com/?ref_noscript){rel="nofollow"}
:::
:::

::: {.section .section}
::: {.container .has-text-centered}
© [Lars Cromley](https://github.com/callmeradical) 2017
:::
:::
