---
lang: en
---

Setting up Puma and Nginx \| Lars Cromley

::: {.section .section}
::: container
::: nav-left
[](https://cromleylabs.com){.nav-item}

# Lars Cromley {#lars-cromley .title .is-4}
:::

::: nav-right
[[]{.icon}](/about){.level-item}[[]{.icon}](/disclaimer){.level-item}[[]{.icon}](https://github.com/callmeradical){.level-item}[[]{.icon}](https://twitter.com/callmeradical){.level-item}[[]{.icon}](/index.xml){.level-item}
:::
:::
:::

::: {.section .section}
::: container
## November 25, 2013 {#november-25-2013 .subtitle .is-6}

# Setting up Puma and Nginx {#setting-up-puma-and-nginx .title}

::: content
*(This article assumes familiarity with reverse proxy software such as
Varnish or Nginx)*

For those of you not familiar with puma you can check out more
information [here - Puma.](http://puma.io) and if that is too much to
read, it can be summarized here...

-   Puma is a very lightweight and incredibly fast web server that was
    built for speed and parallelism. For comparisions of other
    webservers check out the link above.

As scability and multi-tenancy issues arise, the benefits of using a
stack which utilizes a reverse proxy and web server tends to make more
sense. The reverse proxy can feed into a pool of web apps as opposed to
an instance of apache which would act as both load balancer and route
the request to a single web server instance that would fork more
processes to meet the demand. The diagram below generally depicts how
this works.

**A reverse proxy: Example**

                                    +---> web app 1 process --> threads
                                    |
    [requests]<-->[reverse proxy server]--+---> web app 2 process -> threads
                                    |
                                    +---> web app 3 process -> threads

**Traditional Apache: Example**

                +---  web app process fork
                |
    [requests]-------  web app process fork
                |
                +--- web app process fork

There have been some debates and I have read conflicting reports of
which way is better. Quite honestly I don't think we are ever going to
find a one size fits all solution for these problems. Take a look at
your application and try to figure out which makes sense for that
project and put in your implementation, or do some research and
benchmark each. I just want to put this out there so maybe some of you
can get behind it.

# Installing Puma

Installation is very quick and easy...

In any Rails 3+ app add the following to your Gemfile.

    gem     'puma', '~> 2.5.1'

Then issue a quick `bundle install`

When in that directory you can type `rails s` to start your app and you
should be greated with something that looks similar to this:

    Puma starting in single mode...
    blah blah blah blah

Congratulations Puma is installed!

# Installing Nginx

Nginx is the reverse proxy server we are going to be using. Mainly
beceause we can utilize its `HttpProxyModule` to pass requests to any
number of virtual hosts.

Installation varies from distro to distro I recommend compiling from
source because generally what is available in the package managers is
out of date.

If you would like to see these methods go ahead and [look here - Nginx
installation](http://wiki.nginx.org/install).

# Configuring Nginx

The particular configuration I use is to utilize the `upstream`
directive to tell Nginx where to proxy parse the request to. Then we
will add the virtual host and use `proxy_address` directive to tell
Nginx to pass the request to the pool of processes defined in the
`upstream` section.

***Warning: these instructions will vary from distro to distro***

First remove the default virtual hosts files.

`sudo rm /etc/nginx/confi.d/default.conf`

Next we have to create a new host config file. This will typically be
located at `/etc/nginx/conf.d/project_name.conf` for our rails app fill
in this file with this code, you can replace the sections labeled
project_name with your own project name.

    upstream project_name {
      server unix:///var/run/project_name.sock;
    }

    server {
      listen 80;
      server_name project_name_url.com; # change to match your URL
      root /var/www/project_name/public; # I assume your app is located at this location

      location / {
        proxy_pass http://project_name; # match the name of upstream directive which is defined above the server block
        proxy_set_header Host $host;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
      }
    }

*note: You may need to modify the permissions of the /var/run directory
if the user is not a member of wheel.*

Then you can restart your Nginx server:

    sudo /etc/init.d/nginx restart

# Starting Puma

`cd` to your project's directory and bind Puma to a unix socket.

    RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec puma -e production -b unix:///var/run/project_name.sock

This is of course of little use to us outside of a testing scenario, we
really want to run this as a daemon. We can do this very easily by
supplying the `-d` parameter, like so:

    RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec puma -e production -d -b unix:///var/run/project_name.sock

And that is essentially it! You should now be up and running!

Managing puma requires a little bit of Unix-fu or command line mastery,
some basic commands:

-   This will show you the PID in use by puma. `ps aux | grep puma`

-   This will stop and and restart puma.
    `kill -s SIGUSR2 #pid_number_from_ps_aux` *note: this will kill
    itself and fork a new process with a new PID*

-   This will terminate the puma daemon.
    `kill -s SIGTERM #pid_number_from_ps_aux`

That is it for now, you can expect an in depth view of managing puma in
the days to come. We will look at managing your pid's, sockets, and
other built in functions in Puma.

Cheers!
:::
:::
:::

::: {.section .section}
::: container
::: {#disqus_thread}
:::

Please enable JavaScript to view the [comments powered by
Disqus.](https://disqus.com/?ref_noscript){rel="nofollow"}
:::
:::

::: {.section .section}
::: {.container .has-text-centered}
© [Lars Cromley](https://github.com/callmeradical) 2017
:::
:::
