---
lang: en
---

SQL Server on Linux? \| Lars Cromley

::: {.section .section}
::: container
::: nav-left
[](https://cromleylabs.com){.nav-item}

# Lars Cromley {#lars-cromley .title .is-4}
:::

::: nav-right
[[]{.icon}](/about){.level-item}[[]{.icon}](/disclaimer){.level-item}[[]{.icon}](https://github.com/callmeradical){.level-item}[[]{.icon}](https://twitter.com/callmeradical){.level-item}[[]{.icon}](/index.xml){.level-item}
:::
:::
:::

::: {.section .section}
::: container
## March 8, 2016 {#march-8-2016 .subtitle .is-6}

# SQL Server on Linux? {#sql-server-on-linux .title}

::: content
Yeah you saw that right. This new Microsoft confuses me almost on a
daily basis. Part of me thinks that this is awesome, and then another
part yells at me for thinking it is awesome.

I think it is great that Microsoft is looking to make good with the
open-source community. They are the second largest contributor to Docker
outside of Docker, and now this push to put SQL Server on Linux is yet
another attempt to break bread.

I think it is great that they are moving in this direction. I also think
it is somewhat sad that they are trying to re-platform one of their
products to work on something outside of their own platform. I can only
assume that this is a direct lesson learned from SQL on Azure and at
scale.

> Today I'm excited to announce our plans to bring SQL Server to Linux
> as well. This will enable SQL Server to deliver a consistent data
> platform across Windows Server and Linux, as well as on-premises and
> cloud. We are bringing the core relational database capabilities to
> preview today, and are targeting availability in mid-2017.
>
> SQL Server on Linux will provide customers with even more flexibility
> in their data solution. One with mission-critical performance,
> industry-leading TCO, best-in-class security, and hybrid cloud
> innovations -- like Stretch Database which lets customers access their
> data on-premises and in the cloud whenever they want at low cost --
> all built in.

Follow The Yellow Brick Road to learn more about this.

<https://blogs.microsoft.com/blog/2016/03/07/announcing-sql-server-on-linux/>
:::
:::
:::

::: {.section .section}
::: container
::: {#disqus_thread}
:::

Please enable JavaScript to view the [comments powered by
Disqus.](https://disqus.com/?ref_noscript){rel="nofollow"}
:::
:::

::: {.section .section}
::: {.container .has-text-centered}
© [Lars Cromley](https://github.com/callmeradical) 2017
:::
:::
