---
lang: en
---

Understanding boxen, a Sysadmin\'s realization\... \| Lars Cromley

::: {.section .section}
::: container
::: nav-left
[](https://cromleylabs.com){.nav-item}

# Lars Cromley {#lars-cromley .title .is-4}
:::

::: nav-right
[[]{.icon}](/about){.level-item}[[]{.icon}](/disclaimer){.level-item}[[]{.icon}](https://github.com/callmeradical){.level-item}[[]{.icon}](https://twitter.com/callmeradical){.level-item}[[]{.icon}](/index.xml){.level-item}
:::
:::
:::

::: {.section .section}
::: container
## November 25, 2013 {#november-25-2013 .subtitle .is-6}

# Understanding boxen, a Sysadmin\'s realization\... {#understanding-boxen-a-sysadmins-realization... .title}

::: content
So I had a hard time understanding what exactly
[boxen](http://boxen.github.com) was used for at first. I also didn't
really see much value other than setting a "base" system.

However after working with puppet and reading some of the other posts by
[Gary
Larizza](http://garylarizza.com/blog/2013/02/15/puppet-plus-github-equals-laptop-love/ "Blog from Gary Larizza, an Engineer at Puppet Labs with a lot to say.")
I think that boxen can really be summed up into an intelligently
designed way to run puppet in an organization that requires more freedom
for its users than typical. This is particularly true of development
shops.

So often system administrators want to lock everything down and provide
the least amount of options to the end user. Updates, software, websites
are all controlled because this is the easiest way to manage all of the
systems in one's environment.

Now throw in a monkey wrench, there is a small group of people that are
working on this project and they all need mysql installed with some
particular databases and they need to be able to quickly access data
dumps on a remote server. The rest of your organization has no need for
any of this and you really don't want to confuse more users. So what do
you do? This, I think is where boxen really shines.

You can give the keys to the castle to your users and still make sure
that the basic essence of your environment remains intact by having
specialized puppet manifests run on each users machine according to the
project or person. Boxen enables this through version control of puppet
manifests and modules.

When you update the source code, your users run 'boxen' which will pull
down the updated code and run it on the machine kind of like a
super-powerful 'puppet apply'

So I guess the easiest way to explain boxen is a puppet-managed
environment with no master.
:::
:::
:::

::: {.section .section}
::: container
::: {#disqus_thread}
:::

Please enable JavaScript to view the [comments powered by
Disqus.](https://disqus.com/?ref_noscript){rel="nofollow"}
:::
:::

::: {.section .section}
::: {.container .has-text-centered}
© [Lars Cromley](https://github.com/callmeradical) 2017
:::
:::
